extract -- Import variables into the current symbol table from an array

  int extract(array var_array [, int extract_type [, string prefix]])~

Import variables from an array into the current symbol table.

Checks each key to see whether it has a valid variable name. It also checks
for collisions with existing variables in the symbol table.

{var_array} An associative array. This function treats keys as variable names
and values as variable values. For each key/value pair it will create a
variable in the current symbol table, subject to {extract_type} and {prefix}
parameters.

You must use an associative array, a numerically indexed array will not
produce results unless you use EXTR_PREFIX_ALL or EXTR_PREFIX_INVALID.

{extract_type} The way invalid/numeric keys and collisions are treated is
determined by the {extract_type}. It can be one of the following values:
EXTR_OVERWRITE If there is a collision, overwrite the existing variable.

EXTR_SKIP If there is a collision, don't overwrite the existing variable.

EXTR_PREFIX_SAME If there is a collision, prefix the variable name with
{prefix}.

EXTR_PREFIX_ALL Prefix all variable names with {prefix}.

EXTR_PREFIX_INVALID Only prefix invalid/numeric variable names with {prefix}.

EXTR_IF_EXISTS Only overwrite the variable if it already exists in the current
symbol table, otherwise do nothing. This is useful for defining a list of
valid variables and then extracting only those variables you have defined out
of $_REQUEST, for example.

EXTR_PREFIX_IF_EXISTS Only create prefixed variable names if the non-prefixed
version of the same variable exists in the current symbol table.

EXTR_REFS Extracts variables as references. This effectively means that the
values of the imported variables are still referencing the values of the
{var_array} parameter. You can use this flag on its own or combine it with any
other flag by OR'ing the {extract_type}.

If {extract_type} is not specified, it is assumed to be EXTR_OVERWRITE.

{prefix} Note that {prefix} is only required if {extract_type} is
EXTR_PREFIX_SAME, EXTR_PREFIX_ALL, EXTR_PREFIX_INVALID or
EXTR_PREFIX_IF_EXISTS. If the prefixed result is not a valid variable name, it
is not imported into the symbol table. Prefixes are automatically separated
from the array key by an underscore character.

Returns the number of variables successfully imported into the symbol table.

Version Description 4.3.0 EXTR_REFS was added. 4.2.0 EXTR_IF_EXISTS and
EXTR_PREFIX_IF_EXISTS were added. 4.0.5 This function now returns the number
of variables extracted. EXTR_PREFIX_INVALID was added. EXTR_PREFIX_ALL
includes numeric variables as well.

|extract| example A possible use for |extract| is to import into the symbol
table variables contained in an associative array returned by
|wddx_deserialize|.

<?php >
  /* Suppose that $var_array is an array returned from
     wddx_deserialize */
  
  $size = "large";
  $var_array = array("color" => "blue",
                     "size"  => "medium",
                     "shape" => "sphere");
  extract($var_array, EXTR_PREFIX_SAME, "wddx");
  
  echo "$color, $size, $shape, $wddx_size\n";
?>

The above example will output:

  blue, large, sphere, medium

The $size wasn't overwritten, because we specified EXTR_PREFIX_SAME, which
resulted in $wddx_size being created. If EXTR_SKIP was specified, then
$wddx_size wouldn't even have been created. EXTR_OVERWRITE would have caused
$size to have value "medium", and EXTR_PREFIX_ALL would result in new
variables being named $wddx_color, $wddx_size, and $wddx_shape.





Do not use |extract| on untrusted data, like user-input ($_GET, ...). If you
do, for example, if you want to run old code that relies on register_globals
temporarily, make sure you use one of the non-overwriting {extract_type}
values such as EXTR_SKIP and be aware that you should extract in the same
order that's defined in variables_order within the php.ini.

|compact|

vim:ft=help:
