strtotime -- Parse about any English textual datetime description into a Unix
timestamp

  int strtotime(string time [, int now])~

The function expects to be given a string containing a US English date format
and will try to parse that format into a Unix timestamp (the number of seconds
since January 1 1970 00:00:00 UTC), relative to the timestamp given in {now},
or the current time if {now} is not supplied.

This function will use the TZ environment variable (if available) to calculate
the timestamp. Since PHP 5.1.0 there are easier ways to define the timezone
that is used across all date/time functions. That process is explained in the
|date_default_timezone_get| function page.

If the number of the year is specified in a two digit format, the values
between 00-69 are mapped to 2000-2069 and 70-99 to 1970-1999. See the notes
below for possible differences on 32bit systems (possible dates might end on
2038-01-19 03:14:07).

{time} The string to parse. Before PHP 5.0.0, microseconds weren't allowed in
the time, since PHP 5.0.0 they are allowed but ignored.

{now} The timestamp which is used as a base for the calculation of relative
dates.

Returns a timestamp on success, FALSE otherwise. Previous to PHP 5.1.0, this
function would return -1 on failure.

Every call to a date/time function will generate a E_NOTICE if the time zone
is not valid, and/or a E_STRICT or E_WARNING message if using the system
settings or the TZ environment variable. See also |date_default_timezone_set|

Version Description 5.1.0 It now returns FALSE on failure, instead of -1.
5.1.0 Now issues the E_STRICT and E_NOTICE time zone errors.

A |strtotime| example

<?php >
  echo strtotime("now"), "\n";
  echo strtotime("10 September 2000"), "\n";
  echo strtotime("+1 day"), "\n";
  echo strtotime("+1 week"), "\n";
  echo strtotime("+1 week 2 days 4 hours 2 seconds"), "\n";
  echo strtotime("next Thursday"), "\n";
  echo strtotime("last Monday"), "\n";
?>





Checking for failure

<?php >
  $str = 'Not Good';
  
  // previous to PHP 5.1.0 you would compare with -1, instead of false
  if (($timestamp = strtotime($str)) === false) {
      echo "The string ($str) is bogus";
  } else {
      echo "$str == " . date('l dS \o\f F Y h:i:s A', $timestamp);
  }
?>





In PHP 5 up to 5.0.2, "now" and other relative times are wrongly computed from
today's midnight. It differs from other versions where it is correctly
computed from current time.

In PHP versions prior to 4.4.0, "next" is incorrectly computed as +2. A
typical solution to this is to use "+1".

The valid range of a timestamp is typically from Fri, 13 Dec 1901 20:45:54 UTC
to Tue, 19 Jan 2038 03:14:07 UTC. (These are the dates that correspond to the
minimum and maximum values for a 32-bit signed integer.) Additionally, not all
platforms support negative timestamps, therefore your date range may be
limited to no earlier than the Unix epoch. This means that e.g. dates prior to
Jan 1, 1970 will not work on Windows, some Linux distributions, and a few
other operating systems. PHP 5.1.0 and newer versions overcome this limitation
though.

|strptime|

vim:ft=help:
